# C Collections

This is a small library of collections and algorithms operating on them.

It features the following collections: dynamic array (aka vector), (doubly linked) list, (double-ended) queue, (hash) map, and (hash) set.
It has the following algorithms: linear search.

I shall be adding a red-black tree and a binary heap any time soon.

They are mostly for personal use right now, but if you stumble upon it, do as you please, per the license.

The documentation will be coming after I'm satisfied with the tests.

And a word of caution: the library is _not_ thread-safe as it is not a priority for me right now.
But some time in 2023, I intend to make it so.

Until then, I welcome any feedback!

## Testing

Please make sure you have [Bazel installed](https://bazel.build/install/bazelisk) first.

Then create a Python virtual environment (virtualenv or conda) and install the requirements in `requirements.txt` with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

Then you can run all tests with `./buildtool.py test`.

Each collection and data structure lives independently so can be also be tested independently. For instance, for the vector collection it would be `./buildtool.py test -c vector`. For the linear search algorithm, it would be `./buildtool.py test -a lsearch`.

## Building

If you wish to build the binaries (.so and .a) files, you can do so with `./buildtool.py build`. Same with testing, you can specify individual targets with the `-t` option.

Then you can check the `bazel-out` directory and copy the binaries from there.

But in general, you will want to test, build then build and have the binaries nicely packaged in a separate folder (this will also copy the header files for you).  
In this case, call `./buildtool.py release` and done.

## Cleaning

If for whatever reason you wish to remove the generated artifacts from testing or building, you can call `./buildtool.py clean`.  
Note, however, that it will not delete the files generated by `bazel`, just the symbolic links; and that's agood thing.

But if you wish to delete the files generated by `bazel` as well, use Bazel directly: `bazel clean --expunge --async`.
